1. Why is a world-writable directory worse than a world-writable file?

A world writable file would allow anyone to edit that single file. 
A world writable directory would allow anyone to edit a directory however they wanted and potentially abuse access. 
An attacker could create, delete, and move files. That means an attacker could upload malicious scripts or remove important files doing more damage thatt just a world writable file.

2. Explain what -perm -002 means versus -perm /111. Why do we use different options for different searches?

-perm -002 checks for files or directories that are world writable.
-perm/111 checks for files or directories that are executable.
Different options are used for different kinds of security problems.
One is about writable permissions, and the other is about executability so they are used for different kinds of searches.



3. If you ran this scanner on a production web server and found 50 world-writable files, what immediate actions should you take?

First, I would check to see who created the files or modified them last, and determine whether they have been tampered with. 
Next, I’d remove world writable access and apply more secure permissions like 644 for files or 755 for directories.


4. Explain why using find ... | while read doesn't work for counting, but while read ... done < <(find ...) does. What is the difference?

find ... | while read 
This loop runs in a subshell so the counter variable is not updating in the main script. 
The other solution given runs the current shell which does change the counter.


5. How would you schedule this script to run automatically every day at 2 AM and email the results to a security team? (JUST NEED THIS ANSWER put answers on github)

I’d automate it by using a system scheduler. 
The script could be scheduled to run at 2 AM every day. 
It’s output could be written to a log file or sent to the security team. 
This ensures permission problems are caught early instead of waiting until the script is manually run.


